[wip]: docs, how to submit PR, bug report, feature request (#13619)
koreader/koreader: doc/Bug_report.md

# Before reporting

Before opening a new ticket, take some time to review the existing issues (and pull requests) to ensure your issue or request hasn't been already reported, requested or resolved.

If your current issue hasn't been already reported, make sure you are running the latest available version (ideally the latest nightly) and that you can replicate it with verbose logs on.

# How to report

> 1. please use english (you can use a translator if you wish)
> 2. please use a short, descriptive title.
> 3. fill device and version
> 4. add a short description of the issue and the steps required to reproduce it.
> 5. attach the `crash.log` from your device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Kindly write in English. We understand that not all our users are native English speakers, but we're unable to manage multiple languages effectively. Feel free to use a translator if needed.
2. Use a short, descriptive title – avoid using all capital letters.
3. Fill in all the required fields.
4. Add a comprehensive description of the issue and the steps required to reproduce it.
5. Attach the `crash.log` file from your device.
```

## Getting a `crash.log`

`crash.log` is a file that is automatically created by KOReader. It can normally be found in the KOReader directory:

* `/mnt/private/koreader` for Cervantes
* `koreader/` directory for Kindle
* `.adds/koreader/` directory for Kobo
* `applications/koreader/` directory for Pocketbook

Android logs are kept in memory. Please go to [Menu] → Help → Bug Report to save these logs to a file.

## Verbose logs

> If the bug you're reporting is NOT a crash we'll need you to reproduce the issue with *verbose* debug logging enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the bug you are reporting is NOT a crash we'll need you to reproduce the issue with *verbose* debug logging enabled.
```

# Before reporting

A bug that's not reproducible on the latest **nightly** (or development branch) is not a bug anymore.

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer 2: Would it be fair to summarize that as "I'd prefer you add 'try to'" at the beginning of the sentence?

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer: I don't think so, this whole thing is simply coming in too strong, it's basically saying "dev branch or piss off" which again, i don’t believe is a reasonable request. 

To summarise, i would go like this: check the issue hasn't been reported/fixed already, if it hasn't make sure it's reproducible on the latest stable version. 

Iff we can't reproduce it (because nobody has a PB for example, or any other reason) then ask the person to try the nightly. 

That's a much friendlier approach towards people who might not be tech savvy.

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer 3: 95% of my initial answers for stuff that isn't obviously broken at first glance are either:

* Try again with the latest nightly
* Try again with verbose debug logs

Sooo, yeah, I kinda see both of those as a necessity ;).

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer 3: Linking to the thingy that explains how nightly work and how to get at them might be a good idea here, too (IIRC, it's in an issue created by @mergen3107 ? We might even have it pinned, lol)

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer 4: @NiLuJe 
Yes, I agree. Although @pazos had ideas on how to improve it to better reflect current state of "rolling releases" of KOReader, so we might wanna update it too?

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer: I still maintain that "my way or else" is not very welcoming though

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer 4: Well, sometimes it is necessary. 

1) I have a bug in KOReader
2) Go create a scarce ticket
3) Get yelled at:
- need to try again on current nightly
- need to provide verbose logs
4) Get back and provide all that
5) Get help

With this change, 2-4) will be wuite enforced :D 

"Get those steps done or else… don't expect a good help"?

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer 3: > I still maintain that "my way or else" is not very welcoming though

Neither is getting a dry "you didn't follow the template" as an answer, so I'm afraid there's no perfect solution here ;).

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Author: @Commodore64user: *please* read the new commit. Now with 300% more *please* :D 

It also includes "try", which means "make sure" but it is more forgiven in case something goes wrong :)

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer: I would say something along the lines of:

`Before opening a new ticket, take some time to review the existing issues (and pull requests) to ensure your issue or request hasn't been already reported, requested or resolved.`

`If your current issue hasn't been already reported, make sure you are running the latest available version (ideally the latest nightly) and that you can replicate it with verbose logs on.`

seems a lot less confrontational and patronising... btw _I_ find the repeated use of the word "please" very patronising and unprofessional, but that is just _me_.

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer 3: I like that, yeah ;).

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer: slightly unrelated, but @NiLuJe have you heard about the KUAL certificate expiration malarky going on at the moment? I am now afraid of exiting KOReader on my k4 or god forbid that it crashes...

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer 3: I'm not in a position to rebuild all the crap that bundles keys right now; but I can rebuild KUAL with new keys once someone sorts the rest out.

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer 3: c.f., https://www.mobileread.com/forums/showpost.php?p=4506164&postcount=1295

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Author: @Commodore64user: yeah, your wording is much better :). And it is easy to copy-paste. Please suggest more ;)

> Make sure you're able to reproduce the issue on the latest **nightly**

Reviewer: I made a couple more @pazos, for now, I'll let you handle the 45 other comments ;)

> In the case you're able to reproduce the bug make sure it isn't already reported. Please **do not open duplicates**

Reviewer: And I actually think this should be the opening paragraph. Always check first.

Reviewer 2: Not necessarily. It's frequently quicker and certainly more foolproof to check the latest nightly than it is to find a relevant report. But I'd also be inclined to put it first.

# How to report

1. please use english (you can use a translator if you wish)
2. please use a short, descriptive title.
3. fill device and version
4. add a short description of the issue and the steps required to reproduce it.
5. attach the `crash.log` from your device.

## Getting a `crash.log`

`crash.log` is a file that is automatically created by KOReader. It can normally be found in the KOReader directory:

* `/mnt/private/koreader` for Cervantes
* `koreader/` directory for Kindle
* `.adds/koreader/` directory for Kobo
* `applications/koreader/` directory for Pocketbook

Android logs are kept in memory. Please go to [Menu] → Help → Bug Report to save these logs to a file.

## Verbose logs

If the bug you're reporting is NOT a crash we'll need you to reproduce the issue with *verbose* debug logging enabled.

> To do so, go to `Top menu → Hamburger menu → Help → Report a bug` and tap `Enable verbose logging`. Restart as requested, then repeat the steps for your issue.

Reviewer 5: May be mention that onces done, disable verbore or debug logging, so they get back to safe level of logging.
